.TH DVI2PS 1 "14 November 1986"
.SH NAME
dvi2ps \- convert a DVI file to PostScript
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dvi2ps
.RB [ \-F
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-R
.IR n ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-f
.IR n ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-i
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-m
.IR n ]
.if n .ti +0.5i
.RB [ \-n
.IR n ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR str ]
.RB [ \-p ]
.RB [ \-q ]
.if t .ti +0.5i
.RB [ \-r ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR n ]
.RB [ \-w ]
.if n .ti +0.5i
\fIdvifile\fP[\fB.dvi\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program converts a DVI file to PostScript, and writes the result
to standard output.  The result requires a small amount of PostScript
source to precede it to the printer, before it can be successfully printed.
(By default, that PostScript code is prepended to the output.)
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-F \fIfile"
specify a fontdesc file.
.IP "\fB\-R \fIn"
specify the resolution of the printer (n dpi).
.IP \fB\-d
select debugging output (you probably don't want to).
.IP "\fB\-f \fIn"
specify a starting page number
(this is a TeX page number \- \\count0).
.IP \fB\-h
do not copy the standard header file.
This option prevents the standard PostScript header file being
prepended to the output.
.IP "\fB\-i \fIfile"
copy the named file to the output.
The contents of the file named will be copied to the output
after the standard header file has been copied.
.TP
\fB\-m0\fP | \fB\-mh\fP | \fB\-m1\fP | \fB\-m2\fP | \fB\-m3\fP | \fB\-m4\fP
specify a magstep to use to print the document.  This overrides
whatever might be in the DVI file.
.IP "\fB\-m \fIn"
specify a magnification to use to print the document.  This should
probably be one of the magic numbers 1000, 1095, 1200, 1440, 1728,
or 2074, but no checking is done.  Note: if your site does not have the
complete set of 300 dpi fonts, this option might be disabled.
.IP "\fB\-n \fIn"
specify the number of copies to print.
.IP "\fB\-o \fIstr"
specify a printing option.
Valid options are
.BR letter ,
.BR note ,
.BR legal ,
.BR landscape ,
.BR envelope ,
and
.BR manualfeed .
This argument may be repeated several times.
.B envelope
is a variant of
.B landscape
that selects manual feed and does proper positioning for regular envelopes.
.IP \fB\-p
do not preload font information.
Occasionally there may be insufficent memory to hold the
information about all of the fonts in the system.  Portions
of the document may be converted by including the
.B \-p
option on the command line.  This will prevent the preloading of
all fonts into the system and instead use demand loading of
the font tables. 
.IP \fB\-q
be quiet.
Don't chatter about pages converted, etc.
.IP \fB\-r
stack pages in reverse order.  
Normally, the DVI pages are processed in reverse order, with the
result that they are stacked in the correct order in the output
tray.  This option reverses that.
.IP \fB\-s
turn on printing of statistics.
Some versions of
.I dvi2ps
will optionally print statistics about
font usage and some other information that is generally only 
interesting to developers.  On these systems,
.B \-s
turns on
the statistics printing.
.IP "\fB\-t \fIn"
specify an ending page number.
.IP \fB\-w
Don't print out warnings.
.SH NOTES
This is a `bare bones' DVI-to-PostScript program.  Minimal error
checking is done.

Not all fonts are available in the resolution needed to display on the 
laser printer;  when a missing font is encountered,
.I dvi2ps
will continue 
to process your DVI file, and will log a warning message. Gaps will 
appear in the document where the missing characters should have been.

It can take up to 60 seconds for the first page to be output.  After a
head of steam has been built up, it can roll along at 5-10 seconds
per page.

.SH PostScript ILLUSTRATIONS

This program supports use of the \fB\\special\fP command in TeX to include
special PostScript code for graphics, etc.  Specifying
\fB\\special{psfile=foo.ps}\fP in the TeX source will result in the contents
of file
.I foo.ps
(assumed to contain PostScript code) being copied 
into the output at that point.  For most included graphics, the
user's (0,0) point will be set to the point of the \fB\\special\fP command
with
.I x
and
.I y
coordinates increasing up and to the right and in units
of PostScript points (72/inch) \(em thus you must explicitly leave space
above the \fB\\special\fP command for most graphics.  For graphics produced by 
Apple Macintoshes (i.e., MacDraw, MacPaint, etc.), the top left corner of 
the drawing will be at the point of the \fB\\special\fP command; in this case
you must leave the required space below the \fB\\special\fP.

The \fB\\special\fP string can contain any number of the following 
.I keyword=value
pairs, separated by blanks:
.ta 10n
.TP 24n
\fIKeyword	Value Type
(dimensions in points: 72 pt = 1 in)
.TP
psfile	string   
\- PostScript file to include
.PD 0
.TP
hsize	dimension
\- maximum horizontal size (for clipping)
.TP
vsize	dimension
\- maximum vertical size (for clipping). Use negative values to specify a
clipping region below the current position.
.TP
hoffset	dimension
\- amount to shift right
.TP
voffset	dimension
\- amount to shift up
.TP
hscale	number
\- scale factor in x-dimension
.TP
vscale	number
\- scale factor in y-dimension
.TP
rotation	number
\- counter-clockwise rotation angle
.PD
.DT
.PP
Thus:
.ce
\fB\\special{psfile=foo.ps hoffset=72 hscale=0.9 vscale=0.9}\fP
will shift the graphics produced by file
.I foo.ps
right by
1", and will draw it at 0.9 normal size.

.B hsize
and
.B vsize
are given relative to the (0,0) point of the
drawing and are unaffected by offsets and scales.

Offsets are given relative to the point of the \fB\\special\fP command,
and are unaffected by scales.

If Macintosh drawings are to be included, the proper LaserPrep file
must be downloaded to the printer, either permanently or as another
header file in addition to the standard
.I tex.ps
header file.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 2.2i
*.dvi
TeX DeVice Independent output file
.TP
/usr/local/lib/dvi2ps/fontdesc
default fontdesc file
.TP
/usr/local/lib/dvi2ps/tex.ps
PostScript support code
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tex(1)
.SH BUGS
There is likely a limit to the size of documents that can be printed (at 
least, on the Apple LaserWriter).  If you get VMerrors reported when 
printing, use the
.B \-f
and
.B \-t
options, to select a range of pages.
The exact limit is unknown, but is probably well in excess of 50 pages
for `normal' documents, decreasing with number of different fonts used,
size of fonts, etc.

.SH AUTHORS
Mark Senn wrote the early versions of this program for the
BBN BitGraph.  Stephan Bechtolsheim, Bob Brown, Richard
Furuta, James Schaad and Robert Wells improved it.  Norm
Hutchinson ported the program to the Sun.  Neal Holtz ported
it to the Apollo, and then to produce PostScript.
Jean-Francois Lamy fixed the interface for PostScript illustrations.

(PostScript is a trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.)
